In production there's no .env file present
because this file is not committed to
our source code
right? Instead here in heroku cli we can manage our
config variables by utilizing heroku config command.
The Heroku config:get used to show the value
of certain config variable, and to set the config
variable we can use heroku config:set key equals value.
You can also set up some config variables in
one line by separating the config var by space.
All right, now let's set up the config
variables for our database credential
heroku config:set db underscore username
equals I'll copy the user name from here.
I'll add backslash so that I can write the code in
new line and to make the code readable. But this
could be work only on UNIX machine.
Then db underscore password
equals I'll copy this long string
and paste here
then db underscore host equals
I'll copy the host
and paste here
then db underscore port equals 5 4 3 2
and last db underscore database equals I'll copy the database
and paste here. Now hit return
everything seems good. As you can see here
the config variables that we have so far.
Next we also need to add additional config variables. If you're using postgresql like me you need to change the
database connection to pgsql because remember
Laravel by default using mysql database.
So here let's add new config variable heroku
config:set db underscore connection equals
pgsql
Also
we need to set up the config variable for our application
key. Heroku config:set app underscore key
equals I'll switch to my editor then copy
and then here just paste the string.
To show our current config variables we can write heroku config
as you see here's the config variables that we have so far.
OK now we can actually migrate our database
using artisan command. Here on production
we can write heroku run and then followed
by artisan command php artisan
migrate
here we will get confirmation message. Answer yes and hit return
whoops I get error
here I made a mistake in database host. As you can see here
I included this port number.
So let me see the database URL again
and I'll copy database host from here to here before colon.
The port number should be excluded.
I'll copy then I'll run heroku config:set
db underscore host equals paste.
Now I'll rerun the migrate command by
saying heroku run php artisan migrate
answer yes and hit return
okay
everything seems good. Now let's go
back to our browser and reload page
here
our page shows up but unfortunately we'll get
a broken page. If we open our browser console.
Here we have other errors this requests
have been blocked mixed content
blah blah blah insecure script and insecure style sheet.
Okay we'll fix this issue in the next lesson.